Some people call her the new Caroline Myss,
but Carol Ritberger is an original.
As happened with two of our other
featured interviewees, it was a
near-death-experience that allowed Carol
to open her eyes and see life as it truly is.
Unlike some in this situation, however,
her eyes never closed.
A beautiful, abulient woman, Carol
reinforces the innate beauty of humanity
via her ability to see the life force
of every living thing on the planet,
most notably humans.
Her message has many layers, but
one of the most important parts
is to let us know that we must begin
listening to our intuitive voice.
(peaceful music)
I think everybody wants to know,
how does this happen?
Everyone thinks oh my God, I would
love to be able to see everything.
But that is a blessing, but at other
times, it can complicate life.
How did this happen to you?
Well, I died.
I actually had a near-death-experience
that the best doctor said is that I had
an allergic reaction to food, but I don't
have food allergies.
And so I just went into convulsions
and then my heart stopped, and
then I traveled to this beautiful
surreal place and learned a lot
about life and me.
Can you talk about the place
you went to and what you learned?
I can.
I was raised in a very structured religion,
and so I expected when somebody died,
that you would have angels come,
and you'd see the white light, the tunnel.
I was more like in a waiting room.
Kind of like at a car wash, watching
everything go by, and I had three
light beams, that's the best way to
describe them, balls of light come up, and
they were able to communicate without talking.
And they taught me a lot about myself
that I've always taken life like brain surgery,
and too serious, and that our society is
too serious, so just kind of an insight to me,
and in insight to who we are, and why we're here.
And it was a beautiful place, fun.
The things they told me, several things,
is they said life is like a candy store, we can
have anything we want, we just have to ask.
And then the most profound thing they told
me is it's okay to color outside the lines.
And I had no idea what that meant.
And then when I came back into my body,
my sight had been altered, to where I can
see that glow of light around everything
that has atoms, and molecules, and motions.
Plants, animals, people.
So and the doctor said oh not a problem,
it will go away, it's probably from the medication
and having to restore your heart beat back.
And I said oh good, how long?
Two weeks, well it's been 26 years.
Not to say that medicine doesn't know
what they're talking about, but in this case,
it was a little bit different.
What a wonderful gift.
We have talked to other people
who have had this happen after their
near-death-experiences, and it did go away.
And so for you, it sounds like it must
have been your dharma to have this
near-death-experience and to be able to
now carry this knowledge and work forward.
Absolutely, and again I think that
the most profound thing is, the fact
that I always take life too seriously.
And being a researcher and a scientist
by nature, I guess I had to have something
that never goes away, so I'll remember
what I'm supposed to do.
Let's talk about the researcher
and scientist, just for a little bit.
About how you were conditioned
prior to this, and well your life prior to this.
My education's in personality behavioral
psychology, and ever since I've been
a little girl, I've been wanting to know
what makes people tick.
And I thought how interesting we are,
we're so different but we're so alike.
And so that's what got me into
the field of personality.
And so I started looking at the parts
of us that are so predictable,
our neurology, how do we gather
information, make decisions, and
that never seems to change, no matter
how much conditioning we have.
So that's really the foundation,
and prior to the near death, I was
doing corporate training, and corporate
work shops, and talk about an absolute
opposite, oh my gosh, an adjustment.
Then I go to my corporate training
and I'm thinking oh my gosh, I hope
nobody in here can notice that I can
see what's going on in colors.
It was very interesting.
Kind of a one foot in one world,
and one foot in the other world.
Just to digress into your
near-death-experience one moment,
when you were shown about how you
take things too seriously, and our culture
does, can you expand on that just a little
bit more, of what you were shown, that moment.
Well I can.
The thing that we forget, is that we're all
intuitive, we all have this extra ability
to be able to kinda see the world differently.
And that intuition gives us a lot of possibilities,
and is part of the creation of ideas
and alternative solutions.
But in our conditioning we lose that,
and we start losing it very early on,
about three years old, and we try to
fit in this world that covets only logical
linear thinking, and we forsake that part of us.
And as a result we miss a part of the specialness
of who we are, and that was one of the
things that they shared, is that there's
going to come a time that we are going
to survive on our intuition more so
than our logic, in the very near future.
I keep getting the same thing,
and it seems like we really need to start
looking at this whole area of our own beings
as a top priority in development, really.
Absolutely, and a lot of people say well
gosh we're really regressing, we're going
back to the hunter/gatherer part of us,
where we relied on our intuition in order
to survive, but it's much more than that
because now we have the ability to really
integrate both into our thinking, which is
the best of both worlds.
You can deal with what's obvious, but you
can also learn how to tap into the wisdom
that we hold inside, that's type of intuition.
And if you combine those two, I mean the
whole world expands, as does your thinking.
Absolutely.
So you got out of the hospital, obviously,
after your food poisoning, so to speak.
And you were able to see, what was your
life like in those immediate days following?
It was terrible, it was terrible.
I know Mel Gibson in the movie
What Women Want, oh I don't need to hear that.
Oh my gosh.
So how was it?
Well here I am, I mean this occurred in January
and living in this area that's foggy,
and damp, and cold, and you couldn't
even see across the street because of the fog.
And I'm wearing sunglasses, and trying
to figure out what this light is, because
my sight had been altered to where I'm
always just letting in too much light.
And for me it was like the brightest
sunny day, and here I am in sunglasses,
and people are going oh my gosh,
what's wrong with this lady?
But I really had hoped that it would go away.
And I just kind of everyday that was my mantra.
Okay I'm gonna wake up today, and it's
not gonna be there, and I didn't know what it was.
I had never studied any of the metaphysical
sciences at all, and I'm walking around
trying to explain to my family, gee
there's a glow of light around you,
and it's changing all the time, and they're
going oh my gosh, so it was really a tumultuous
time, and a time of a lot of fear truthfully.
What is it?
Will it go away?
And will I get back to what I considered normal?
How do I do it?
What if it doesn't?
That was my biggest thing, what if it doesn't?
And I'd wake up in the morning, okay,
it's still there, so.
Well when did you start
actually seeing definable things in a person,
so you realize you're able to tell if someone
was off balance, becoming ill, or what not?
That really didn't happen until about
four or five years into it.
The aura is exquisite, meaning that it's just
dancing color, and every time a person
thinks it's like a new color and a sunburst
that just comes off of them.
So for the first few years, I was just
fascinated to learn what it was, and
why did it change, and did food have
anything to do with it, and thought,
and personality, so it was a real kind of
curious, inquisitive time for me.
What were some of your
very early discoveries, just watching
different types of people?
Probably the most profound part
of it was that I could notice that when
people appeared to me to being stressed,
understanding personalities, pretty easy to read,
that their aura would change so significantly.
It would pull close to their body and if someone
was under prolonged stress and you talked
to them, then their aura would actually
develop like holes in it.
So that was really my first connection
with trying to understand what really
impacts who we are in this aura,
and so I started making the connection
more with stress than anything.
And then when somebody would laugh,
the aura would get fluffy, and it would
just kind of reach out, and it's like hello
I'm here and so it was just about four years
of intense learning and observation.
Let's take that thread.
So you started noticing when there
was a lot of stress, for example,
then you have holes in the aura.
And as your knowledge became more
sophisticated, what did you start
learning that to mean?
Well I took it from just watching
the aura and how people deal with
situations and stress, and then I
overlaid that with my education
with personality, and one of the things
I learned with personality and the
neurology, the way that I work with
it is, that any time you step outside
of your hard wiring in your brain,
you're gonna have stress.
And what causes that, and how does
it affect you, and how does it change
the chemistry of the body?
So that kind of is where it went.
And then I started studying the body,
physiology, anatomy, and connecting
the holes or the protrusions, or the
hot spots I call them, where there's
a tremendous amount of maybe a
red hot spot, or then also why would I
see patterns, and colors, and start
connecting that with diabetes and
cancer, and just kind of putting together
my own I don't know probably pre-med
book, if you can call it that.
Okay we are both laughing
because the question I'm about to ask
you, I have already asked you three times.
And every time I ask this question,
something, some major noise comes along.
Someone comes in the room, the vacuum
cleaner starts, a baby cries.
So we'll talk about why in a minute.
But let me ask the question one more time.
Right.
(laughing)
And that is, getting to
the bone of things, our emotions,
our emotional field, and the magnitude
of the importance of our emotions
in our evolution, as a species, and also
in our own personal evolution, and
where we find ourselves right now.
And I know you have a lot to say about it.
And this time, the fourth time's a charm.
Well I think we finally got to where
we were supposed to, because the first
time you asked me, we were kind of
in that logical part of it, that pragmatic
scientific part of it, and then we went
to the next one, and we kind of filtered
through, and down to where we should be.
There are really only two kinds of emotions.
There's fear and love.
And when we really look at who we are,
as this soul, this energetic being,
we are really pure love.
But in our conditioning, we are conditioned
in fear, we are never born in fear.
And it's just something that's gifted
from our interaction with other people,
and their opinions, and well it may be
that the opinions are a value.
They really do condition us to
be in fear, fear of survival, fear of unknown,
fear of abandonment, fear of betrayal.
All the ones that the primary fears
that we have that run our life.
But emotions from the soul's perspective
are how we gauge whether we're
in alignment with our purpose,
our soul work, or we're out of alignment.
And when I even say that, we're never
really out of alignment, it's just kind of
the metaphor I use is we're going
from California to New York.
And every so often we just kind of
decide we want to go see the Grand Canyon,
and we see that as a detour, and our emotions
let us know that the thought that we're
engaging in, the story, the repetition,
isn't in our best interest.
So our emotions really are very important.
And emotions are energy.
So when we feel anger or hatred,
that is leaving us in great waves,
and it's reaching out there and saying
to anybody else, is there anybody else
out there that's angry, and then it dances
and intermingles, and it becomes more,
and is there anybody else?
And as a result, then we find that
it's very difficult for us to be able
to shift our thinking, and it needs
to come back to looking at our emotions.
The stronger the emotion, the further
we are away from ourselves.
The closer to love, and most importantly
self love, then we're back in our own body,
back in our own life, doing our own work.
Speaking our truth.
You have watched the auras
of people change, you're watching us
evolve as a species, you're watching
the role that emotion is playing in this.
Can you talk about that for a bit?
Oh I can.
I think that with being a medical intuitive,
a lot of my focus has been on the effects
of emotions and thoughts in the physical body,
and how it causes a pre-illness in the field.
But I think that this is a lot more than
just our own body, and our own survival.
I think it's the survival of our entire species.
And I think we're getting closer to realizing
if we really want to heal ourselves,
instead of just curing, meaning putting
band-aids on a boo-boo, we really gotta
go inside and the old mantra, know thyself,
is really important.
And I think emotions let us know our self and
who we are, and we need to start expressing them.
The indigos are a perfect expression of that.
Everything about them is truth.
Whether we like it or not, it's truth.
Let's talk about them.
Because you have dealt with some.
You have had the pleasure of dealing
with some of the indigo kids.
And first of all, let's have your definition of
what the indigo children are, in the broadest sense.
The broadest sense scientifically if I can
kind of combined the two, which sounds
a little strange when I talk to scientists
about it, indigo refers to the sixth chakra.
Kind of the windows of the soul,
that intuitive part of us that we
associate with the pre-frontal lobes.
So that's why they're called indigos,
is just because that particular part
of our body actually resonates the
vibration in color when you add the
color and light to it, it becomes indigo.
These children were written about
a long time ago, in a lot of the ancient texts,
and they were called blue children.
And blue is the color of truth,
and these children are truth.
And again we as parents or grandparents
may not necessarily like what they
have to say, but they do speak their truth,
and they do remind us when we're not
speaking ours.
And that old cliche it's better to be seen
and not heard, doesn't work for these
children at all.
Give us some examples of
some of the kids you've met and some
of what you've learned from them,
and some of what their parents and
others have learned from them as well.
And how you identify someone that you
would say is an indigo child.
Well we can use the cliche these
children have more energy, which
all children have energy, but they
literally do, their field is much more
dynamic meaning that it doesn't
seem to have this constrain that
we in our logic and mature whatever
that means, puts on ourselves, that
limitation either in thinking or in our
activities, or in aura.
They're very expansive.
They interact with everything in a very
pure way, there's few limitations in their
thinking, they believe they can do anything.
I had a mother bring a young girl in to me.
And she came in, and she walked into my
office, and she just started looking around
and just observing, this is another quality
about the children is they're great observers.
And when they look at you, they look into
your soul, they look into your eyes and
you know they are sizing you up.
Is she who she says she is, does she.
And again not with judgement, it's just
the way that they connect with us.
And she walked into my office and
she was looking around, and she
just very seriously sat down because
I color, and I thought oh my gosh
is there a cosmic sense of humor.
Here I am at this age walking around
with my crayon box.
But she sat down very seriously
and she said to me, "you like angels."
And I said I do, and she said "so do I."
And she said, "and I touch them.
I touch these baby angles all the time."
And she moved her hand, and she went
"touch it like this", and she would open it up.
And I watched her mother's aura just
pull in and cringe, and the child was
so sensitive to that.
So I said well let's color.
And I said do you know why you're here?
And she said, "well my mom wants you
to color me, and to explain why I'm
having some of these seizures that I'm having.
And why I'm having some of this
behavior that appears to be like autistic.
This repetitive pattern of expression.
This touching, releasing, touching."
And so we colored.
And she said, "that pattern is that I
touch the angels, the baby angels.
They want to come forward."
And she says, "I put my hand out
and I allow them to do that."
And she looked at me and she said,
"and you believe me."
And I said, I do, because I know
that they're real, she said, "can you see them?"
I said no.
She said, "would you like me to color one?"
And you would think this child was a
Michelangelo with this angel that was
just exquisite, and but it wasn't kind of
the angels that maybe you or I would think.
They were free, they were fun, they were
sloppy in their appearance, the halos weren't
there, the wings were and so forth.
But it was just beautiful.
And I talked to her about the seizures,
and I asked her about them, and she said,
I asked her if they make her afraid.
And she said, "oh no."
She says, "because in them, I get to talk to God.
I get to talk to this place that I get
to go home to."
And she said, "but it scares my mom."
And I looked at her mom and she said,
"but you know when you're alive", she says,
"you don't get a chance to do this, Carol.
And mom doesn't get a chance, but I get
to do this."
And she says, and she kind of sat there
and she set herself and she goes,
"but I wouldn't want you to have
seizures in order to do that."
And she said, "you died once."
And she said, "and you don't need to die again.
All you need to do is to just go in the quietness."
And then she asked her mother,
"would you like me to stop touching the angels
because it concerns you so much?
If you would, I will stop."
Well of course the mother and I are
blubbering all over everywhere.
Oh my God, the truth and purity of this child.
And that's what they do, they transform you.
How old was that little girl?
She was four years old at the time.
Oh my, four.
And now are the indigo children
do they often show themselves as
what is known as autistic, or is
that just some of the time?
That's just some of the time.
And again, we do have more autism
in our society than we have ever had.
And for some of us who kind of look
at the world through the eyes of energy,
and look through the eyes of where we
evolve to, some of us believe that maybe
through autism, we're learning that we
don't have to speak everything.
Maybe we just have to feel.
Maybe we have to engage in the purity of what is.
Interesting.
We interviewed Ron Davis of the Davis
Dyslexia Institute, and Ron is autistic.
He didn't speak until he was 17.
By 19, the military industrial complex
was using his brain to detect flaws
in the Polaris missile system.
And he described to us what it was like.
as an autistic person, one foot in one world,
one foot in the other, and he said,
"I can feel myself in three dimensions.
I'm aware of being in three dimensions at once."
And he said, as an autistic baby, they don't
crawl forward to explore, because they've
already been there and back.
Exactly.
Now have you heard these
same kinds of stories?
Absolutely.
And again, I think that part of their
gift to us is to cause us to think.
And to cause us to evaluate our life,
and to be aware when we compromise
our self, and be aware when we suppress
an emotion, that really needs to be spoken.
And again, we're so concerned and our
conditioning is that we don't say anything
to hurt someone's feelings, or we just
kind of sit quietly and we suffer in silence
and so forth.
And I can tell you as a medical intuitive,
that many of the illnesses we have
that are chronic in nature, is the chronic
nature that we don't express our emotions.
And it will surface in different places,
different ways, and the indigos been
around for a long time, this is something
that we're hearing that we're getting
more of them, that's true.
We know that scientifically there are more
being born, but by the same token,
we also know that there have been
indigos born for a long time.
Those are the people who have always
been the different thinkers, and march
to their own drummers, and been willing
to do it long before the new children came along.
So with the new children,
obviously is coming a new age.
And you must be seeing differences
in the aura, even now, from 20 years plus
when you began all of this, that there
are two different tracks I want to take here.
So I think they can merge.
One has to do, I want to know how you're
perceiving these changes within the aura
and what we are becoming, and this
whole notion of transparency IE truth.
Okay.
So take off on either one
and then we'll pick it up.
Okay well from the aura standpoint
their mental area of their body,
their head, their shoulders, that halo
around them, is much more active.
And part of the reason is that we
actually have chakras around the
crowns of our head, that's tied to our soul.
So instead of just the seven in the body
that we talk about, we have five that are
really the expression of the soul part of who we are.
And with these children, their mental acuity,
their level of comprehension, their ability
to multi-task, their ability to we kind of call it
sometimes label it with ADD, from the
standpoint that they don't appear to be
as focused as we would like.
But these children can actually be
doing something with their hands,
hearing everything that's being said,
and being visually engaged in something.
And somebody will say, oh well you're not
paying attention, they say oh no they are.
So neurologically there's some major changes
in the structure of the brain itself.
And there's some other changes in the
anatomy of the body, their liver's different.
It actually is denser in its matter.
It's able to deal with the environmental
contaminants, it doesn't seem to be
as prone to a lot of the lack of cleansing,
or the harboring of the yeast, and the fungus
and all the things that we have, the bacteria.
And then also their spleens are more able to
transmute a lot of the autoimmune disorders
we have, for example there's a wonderful
study out of UCLA where a child was able
to literally transmute AIDS out of his body,
between birth and five.
But they fall victim to a common cold.
And so I always say that they're
the new improved model of a new vehicle.
They still have a few bugs, per se, but that's
changing as more children are being born.
We're really on the brink of a whole new
evolution of both consciousness and our species.
Absolutely.
How are you seeing this extend itself into us?
I mean we all chose to incarnate at this time,
while the earth and the cosmos is going
through all these changes, whether you want
to look at it through the lens of the Mayan calendar.
It doesn't really matter, i think everybody
every sentient thing knows things are changing
around here.
Oh absolutely.
How are you seeing it
express itself in our auras as adults,
who have chosen to make this transition
across time, space, and energy fields?
Well I think for the first thing
to answer that question is I think
we've really come and kind of greased
the skids for these kids.
That we are really that generation
of shape shifting, and the consciousness,
in the way that we look at the world,
and the way that we value earth,
and the way that we live our life.
So I think that there's a major gift
that we've brought to these children.
Working with the children, I find that
they're a little bit frustrated because
they really thought this was going to be
probably more evolved than it really is.
But again, I think that that's a learning in itself.
But for us, it's to really get to know ourselves.
It's to be truthful with ourselves,
even if we're not truthful with other people,
at least be truthful with ourselves.
My dad has said that since
I was a little child, that was his mantra.
And to look in the mirror and to see the beauty.
I always say to people, if you could
see yourself through my eyes, there's
only magnificence, meaning there's no
imperfections, you're never stuck,
you're only stuck in your thinking.
But we aren't truthful with ourselves.
We don't look in the mirror and go,
wow that's a nice smile, Carol.
Or look at the sparkle in the eye.
Because then it's like oh my gosh
that's from the ego, and as a result,
we don't praise ourselves or build
ourselves up, because we're so afraid
that other people are gonna see us
as being too egotistical.
Now those are generalities.
Yeah but that's a huge flaw.
That's a huge flaw in our thinking.
There's a notion of modesty and humility
that has a lot of baggage with it.
Absolutely because we have downplayed
the importance of our human ego.
It's what helps us survive in our physical body
and we've associated a lot of the negative
to that human ego, so it's like we've
separated our self from our self.
That physical part of us that needs
to survive through ego, and that
learns our lessons, and does our work,
and makes a change in this world,
is very important.
But we have become changed in our
perception of humility.
I always say that the greatest gift
of who we are is when we can look
in the mirror and we can fall in love
with our self everyday, and to do it
without wondering what are people
going to think or oh, Carol, you shouldn't
think that because my gosh then people
are going to imply, you're going to
imply that your'e more special.
I'm not at all.
So I think that's part of the shift.
And as we're looking at all of this,
the shift isn't just in one area.
It's touching every aspect of our being.
Our earth, our selves, our emotions,
our consciousness, our truth, just everything.
Our political system.
There's not a part of our society
that isn't being challenged and
challenge always brings change.
And if you don't like change, it's a problem.
If you do, then it's a good thing.
It's a good thing.
Well going back to more our generation,
that came here when you had one set
of frequencies in place that have shifted
rather dramatically, there's also a lot of
energy behind the information that our
DNA is changing.
Oh absolutely.
And can you talk about
we're works in progress ourselves.
They're coming in with the new DNA,
but our DNA is changing, what does that mean?
Well the truth is, is that people that
I've worked with that study the molecular
biology of who we are, the bottom line
of it is, we have the same capability
as these children do in our DNA.
We have aspects of the DNA that
have never been turned on.
The codons for example.
The codons, they've never been turned on.
And we're learning that children are coming
in with more active codons than we have.
So as a result, their immune system is
able to deal with things differently.
But you and I can do that.
So let's talk about that.
How do we take our bodies that are
a work in progress, and start evolving
them to the next level that these kids
are already demonstrating, we're becoming?
It sounds almost trite, but we literally
change our thought.
Thought is energy, and any thought
that we create in our mind, all of the
sudden when it becomes fixed, gets
an emotional charge, in the world of energy,
it leaves you.
And it's going to go out there and
it's going to find those who are like minded
that are going to support this thought.
And if we can change one thought about
our self, or one thought about how we
live our quality of life, or one thought
about how we interact with people,
just merely one thought, is kind of
like dropping a pebble in the pond.
And it becomes larger and larger,
the more that it becomes the same
with like minded people, and pretty soon
we have a change that's going to shift.
And so that's our work.
Right, and even staying
in the physical realm of it alone,
to not buy into the concepts, the mythology
that our society lives to be 73.2 years old,
ectetera, ectetera, and we just start
having degenerative processes set in
after the age of 50, we need to really unplug
from all of that, it's now old information.
Absolutely.
And the thing is, is that we buy into it.
I work a lot with doctors and I work
a lot with their patients, and doctors
are mandated to say that this is stage
four cancer, this is the likely livelihood of it.
And it could be anywhere from 15 days
to 3 years, I mean that's what they have to do.
But they're not God, or this supreme being,
or what anybody would like to call it.
That person doesn't have to buy into that.
And if they do, then the law of manifestation
is then they will transition within that time.
Or they come out of there, and they go,
you know what, I'm just not gonna buy into that.
I'm gonna try some things, and if I only am
gonna live 15 days, they're gonna be the best
15 days of my life.
And that in itself is healing because
now you're not gonna do all the things
that you did before.
Exactly, and you're going to live it
with more hopefully gusto, passion, and joy.
Absolutely.
And integrity, and the truth of who we are,
instead of sitting around and aunt Jemaine
comes in and she just bugs the daylight
out of you, and you don't say anything.
All the sudden comes in and goes
you know you really bug me and it's
like oh, that was really good.
That felt good.
Well we're here at the heart of healing
conference, and the whole theme of
energy medicine, which is you're under
the category of energy medicine,
is what's dominating this theme.
And the whole subject of the heart
of healing, what about the actual,
how do you see the heart?
What does the heart mean?
There's actually two hearts
in how I see the field.
There's of course the physical heart
that is literally the pump that moves
the blood and all that, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi.
But the bottom line of it is, that's the heart
that we use to interact with our outer world.
It's where we look for love outside of
ourselves, we share love outside of ourselves.
But there's another heart called
the ethereal, that's the soul heart.
And between where the heart is located
right here, and between our voice
and speaking our truth, there's
this void, or this abyss that it's called,
and that's where our soul, and our love,
and our love for self.
So there's a heart for loving others,
and there's a heart for loving ourselves.
And when we love ourselves, again
that's a comment that a lot of people go,
well, Carol, what does that mean?
It means again broken record.
Look in the mirror and find something
beautiful about yourself and fall in love
with yourself.
Hmm, that's so hard for
people in probably all over the world
but certainly in Western culture.
All we can see is our flaws, what needs
to be covered up, or altered, or colored.
Exactly, exactly.
And again, the gift of that is, is that
you and I could make a difference,
and we could look in the mirror
and we could see something different.
Well let's go beyond
the physical, into the chakras.
Now a wise being that I respect
told me a few years ago that with
some of the people, it's no longer
necessary to be putting a lot of
attention and energy into the lower
three chakras.
Those have been over-developed
in the human species and now that
the base chakra starts with the heart,
and we start looking at the system
as it moves into the chakras above the head.
Absolutely.
Now can you tell me your
truth of that, or experience with that.
Exactly the same truth with that,
is that again the lower chakras
is really where all illness begins
in the physical body.
While it may begin in the thought,
in the chemistry change, in the brain,
around that thought, it's really tied
to the lower three chakras that
we really manifest our ilnesses.
And what we're doing is we've moved
from curing to wanting to heal.
And that means that we have to look
at things differently.
So we have choices, and I think
that that's really the pivotal key
as far as whether we heal or whether
we stay in the thinking that we were,
that somebody else needs to heal us,
instead of us participating.
But when you touch that heart,
the physical human heart, and you
realize how precious love is, and how
precious the sharing of exchange
of information, excuse me, I'm gonna
tell you a quick story on this.
One of the things that I learned
when I was in this transitional
time and my death time is the most
precious gift we have in our physical
body, are our five sense.
To be able to look in someone's eyes
and truly see them, or to smell them,
or to taste that mocha at 3:00 in the afternoon,
those are really precious things.
But we don't place a lot of value
on what they bring to us.
And so as we kind of get into this
shift of consciousness in our self,
then what we realize is that we
don't negate that specialness of us.
And we use the five physical senses
to not just see the obvious.
And it changes.
And you can only touch your soul
through your heart.
Through self love, through doing things
that are important to you, rather
than doing things that are urgent to others.
Self care.
Let's talk about how
we do that through our senses.
The ways in which we can nurture that
through the physical senses even.
We can do it through the sense
of smell through aromatherapy.
Or we can do something as simple as
walking past a rose and bending over
and smelling it, or we can look at
the face of a pansy, or we can look
at the blue of the sky.
We can just appreciate the things
that are so obvious that we really don't see.
The formation of clouds.
Do you remember as a child you
look at the clouds and you'd go, oh do you
see that elephant up there in that cloud?
Yeah or the bunny.
The bunny or the things, we don't do that.
So those are the ways that we can use
our physical senses.
The ability to taste food, and to enjoy
the flavors, and to just savor it,
instead of going no I really should't eat that.
Instead of not eating it, why don't you
just take a little tiny bite of it, and just
let it melt in your mouth?
I'm big on that, I'm a taster.
I want to taste everything.
Absolutely, and even through taste,
you have the bitter and you have the sweet.
I mean that's kind of what life is all about.
The bitter isn't that it's bad,
it's just a different taste, a different
way to look at it.
So then if we begin this
journey of refinement as it were.
Good word.
Being childlike, and utilizing
our senses with our conscious awareness,
which is childlike.
It is, absolutely.
Kids usually use their senses
full on, and get lost in the feeling,
or the touch, the feel, the color.
Right.
Would you say that's
a good place to begin our journey?
Absolutely, absolutely.
One of the things I'll say to people
when was the last time you picked up a crayon?
You can't sit down and color, and not
become a child.
Not only the vibrations, the color,
the activity, the fun.
We start out, I've done work shops on this,
we start out, and art therapy does
a lot of this, but we start out kind of
coloring in the lines and it's like well
I think I'm just gonna color, oh my gosh,
I colored outside the lines.
Well I'll color a little more, a little more.
So absolutely.
And just laughing.
Again this is one of the probably
more it effects everyone but it's
for me, is that you need to laugh everyday.
This isn't brain surgery.
You wake up and you should be like
that little kid on Christmas morning,
you just can't wait to get out of bed
and get going.
And just find out whatever life's gonna give you.
What about the animal kingdom?
Because they're going through the shifts
right alongside us.
Can you talk a little bit about your
view, your vision of what you see
in the animal kingdom?
Oh there's a tremendous shift
in their fields also, because they
really are great healers to us.
And the greatest gift is, they're able
to take those emotional charges
that we keep pent up, and they
actually will take it on in their field.
They're unlike humans that we tend
to try to contain our self, animals
are very fluid, and so they can
take on emotions, they can take on
actual physical ailments of their owners.
And they'll transmute it.
It's just like it just kind of goes
from you, goes into their field,
and just kind of goes away.
And just filters out.
Great healers.
But because the emotions are so strong
right now and the fear is so strong right now,
the animals, their fields are being used up.
They're not able to stay as fluid.
It's almost like we're bombarding them
with this mother of all fear, and I'm not
even sure what that is cause it's so different.
And they too don't know how to deal with this.
So they're in an evolutionary cycle.
And I believe that we are having
more animals that are checking out.
Having human-like health problems.
Dying at a much younger age.
Absolutely.
I had a woman come in for a reading
that brought this cat, Jeremiah was its name.
And so she came in, and she kinda
hung around, and Jeremiah's walking
around my office, and gets up in my chair,
and I said okay, are we ready to start the work
and the reading?
She said yes, well Jeremiah wouldn't get
out of my chair, so Carols' on the floor.
(laughing)
And I looked at Jeremiah and I thought
oh my gosh, you have a urinary tract issue.
And I turned my head to the owner,
and I thought, oh my gosh, you have
a urinary tract issue.
And I looked at Jeremiah, and as
quick as I saw that, as woo-woo
as it sounds, it was gone.
It was like Jeremiah just said
I'm in your chair, you're on the floor,
this is what it is, do your work, now it's done.
So they can transmute it
really quickly because they don't have
those same belief systems.
They don't believe they have to
protect themselves, we as humans
spend a lot of time trying to protect ourselves.
And what that really does is it pulls
our field in close to us, and we're not
designed to be in that protection.
We're designed to be expansive.
So this belief that we have to protect
ourselves, in a lot of ways is causing
a lot of our problems in our body.
I want to come back where
we were when we were interrupted
all those times, you just mentioned emotions.
You were just mentioning the emotions again.
And you were saying that they are so
much more pronounced and dramatic
now than ever, because of the fear factor.
How can we begin taking this one on
and working with it?
How do we get past the fear?
Mmm.
I know that's a big question
and it's not fair to ask on one level.
No, no, not at all.
I would like your opinion.
I think the first thing is, and this
is my own perception of it is,
I think that we need to have more
time leisure, leisure time, we have to
have more time to play.
We need to disconnect from the
cell phones, and the blackberries,
and the TV, and the media, and the
different things, and not that all
of that is negative, because it's really
expanded our world to be global.
So there's some benefits.
But gosh how many times have you
been somewhere and seen someone
in this beautiful place in nature,
and all of the sudden their darn phone rings
and they're on the phone, and their kids
are jumping around, all they want to do is play.
We lost the ability to be able to do that,
and I think we need to be able to unplug ourselves.
And when we do, then we're not going
to be as visually or auditory in the
constant bombardment of fear, paranoia,
panic, stock market, all the things
that we do.
Again don't put your head in the sand.
But unplug.
And just have a little time to maybe
have some free thinking.
Maybe not really do any kind of
critical thinking at all, maybe just
enjoy the scenery, enjoy where you are.
20 minutes a day of relaxing thoughts
can reduce hypertension so quickly.
And it's a wonderful pain management
for chronic fatigue and a lot of chronic
ailments that we have now in our society.
20 minutes of just allowing the mind
to just wander and not worry.
Hmm.
What about being outdoors.
Just simple elements such as nature,
because of course the fear tactics
have made their way deep into the
psyche where oh I can't go out
without 30 block sunscreen, I hear
women and men say these things.
And afraid of cancer, afraid of the sun.
Well and absolutely.
In many ways from the standpoint
of where we are in the atmosphere
itself, there's truth to that.
But the other thing is, we have to have
the sun to create the vitamin D that
we need in order for our skin to replenish,
and our cells to rejuvenate and everything.
And I think what we've done is we've
gone to extremes, we used to back when
I was younger, I'd lay in the sun for four
and five hours.
Me too.
The more golden the tan, the better it was.
To now, where we don't want to be
in the sun five minutes without something.
Somewhere there's gotta be some common sense.
And I think that that--
Put sunscreen on, but got out in it, right?
Well and the truth is, I mean dermatologists
are gonna probably scream, but the bottom
line of it is, go outside and sit in the sun
for five minutes.
Just allow the warmth of the sun,
the feeling how it loosens the muscles.
How it just relaxes you, how it changes
your breathing, how you absorb it
through the pores of your skin.
Gee just five minutes can start the process.
What we're doing now is we're looking
for supplements, which certainly is
going to give us what we need, but gosh
it takes away the pleasure of the five senses.
I mean getting vitamin D 3 in a capsule
is I don't know, I don't get very much
enjoyment out of that, how about you?
No, no.
So what does the sun do to the aura as well?
Oh it makes us fluffy.
It makes us fluffy.
The truth is you can't be out in nature
and you can't be with a tree, and not
become the tree, you can't be with
a flower, and not become the flower.
You can't be with the sun and if we
go back into a lot of the ancient
writings, as far as the ways to heal
ourselves back in the Egyptian meta-physicians,
one of the things that they said is
that you go out and you sit in the sun,
and you allow the sun god of Ra to be
able to heal what ails you and so forth.
I mean that's one of the basic parts of who we are.
Now there are things that you need to do,
as far as protecting, if you're gonna be
out for a long time but gosh we've
kind of taken away a lot of our spontaneity.
All the things that were really--
What's happened to us?
Well this is your job and my job
is to bring back those things and
start at moderation, and maybe
we'll change from the fact that
we go out five minute a day, and
we don't get melanoma.
Maybe that's the--I don't know.
Well you're certainly
doing your part, and you're radiating
your talk, so obviously you've taken
these principals onboard yourself.
Any other last thoughts or along
the way, along this journey of re-awakening
into our senses, unplugging from the information
sources that aren't supporting us anymore?
Be kind to yourself when you don't,
because as you said with radiating
in my field, absolutely, but very, very human.
The deadlines get me, the sitting in the
chair for 14 hours writing a book will get me.
My body is saying get up and just walk, Carol.
No I'm negotiating with it.
So when you fall into places, don't go
into the criticalness, don't go into the
negative self talk and the anger.
As a medical intuitive, I know that
all self-directed anger is housed
in your spleen, and that's the most
important part of your immune system.
And we can't stay angry with our self.
And Edgar Cayce said also, you can't
stay angry with yourself and stay
healthy in your body.
So when you start that negative
self talk, I don't know, come up
with something.
Mine is I have a little diddy that i
put in my mind and I just say that
little mantra, and it makes me
giggle and laugh and--
Can you give us an idea
of some matras that people might
be able to use if they don't have
a diddy in their mind already?
Show time or go to the crown, or
laugh a little, just something that
I'll say to people when I'm doing
my work shops, a song title is
a wonderful way, you are my sunshine
and things, so it's a wonderful way
to remind us.
And what it does is when we say that
to ourselves, we actually release endorphins
and neuro transmitters, and all of those
tell our body everything's fine.
Just chill out, it's good, it's gonna all work.
And that's how we heal.
On that note, zipp-a-dee doo-dah.
(laughing)
Show time.
Thank you so much, Carol.
You're absolutely delightful.
And everybody will be able to find you
on the little link below this window right now.
Thank you so much.
Oh it was my pleasure, thank you.
Carol has an institute that assists
people to recover the use of their
innate intuitive skills, just click
on the link to her website below.
You can also purcahse her books
through that link, meanwhile, our
interviews with Hazel Courtney
and Daniel Brinkley also tell of
what they learned while in the
other dimensions beyond the physical
world in their near-death-experiences.
Each story gives us hope, encouragement,
and a nudge to make a difference in our own lives.
Until next time, thanks for watching.